according to a survey released this week
by Consumer Reports
the the word natural on food products
actually means nothing literally nothing
that's right so we've got some findings
from the study
so two-thirds of Americans think that
the word natural on the label on the
package
or processed food means that it contains
no artificial ingredients pesticides
or genetically engineered organisms that
is just simply not true
when consumers see the word on meat or
poultry seventy percent
think it means no growth hormones were
used to get the animal
in the animals feed and sixty percent
think the animals got no antibiotics or
other drugs in their feed that is also
not true
both the FDA and the US Department of
Agriculture allow food producers to use
the word natural on labels
as long as nothing artificial or
synthetic has been added
that would not normally be expected in
the food
under an informal policy the FDA put
into place back in 1983
and the arguments been made that the
prohibition up the word natural wood
restrict free speech so we we do a lot
of stuff
on the show about natural foods in GM
owes and all the crazy additives and the
shoulder is the night but does corn
syrup and all that
jacqueline I'm gonna let you start here
is someone with a little science behind
it
I am we love words right we just love
words its own natural I need people
think
Wenger I mean it says right there that
it's just what you put in our to expect
to be in the votes or something
unnatural is being added to your food
but it's something that they normally
and
they're allowed to use the word natural
and put that label on the food and
people I'm sorry but like
I do honestly think that they have the
right to do that
people being gullible was not their
fault I mean people exploit that type of
thing all the time politicians do it
markers do it so it kinda up to the
consumer to do a little better work in a
little bit of research to figure out
what is in there for good and what is
healthy and what's not
and hand hygiene thing to people get
excited they've seen on GM 0
on a phone now by I've seen on Geo on
salt yeah I mean that an inorganic
yeah there's no g2/m yeah I know I don't
understand why people just a few words
that are pretty and
they think that they're doing something
good by going after that it breaks to
your kinda given the FDA little
a little each year to people around
because you wanted to ultimately come
back to the people who have the biggest
manipulative and I wish that it wouldn't
happen
but I mean that are the world world we
live in
as far as like the money is concerned
hit the ball the money if this is gonna
make operations more money
no one's going to stop them the a so I
am short with you cuz I believe in the
personal responsibility thing but if
this many people are getting duped
perhaps the FDA
needs the do something more more
transparent to raise the standards I i
hurt you
you tell me if this is cracking I heard
that apparently there's a certain
like percentage on insects that are
allowed in peanut butter and it's like a
.5
situation just simply because in the
quantity %uh mass production
that you have to allow that just
marginal toxicity
in your for there's a certain amount a
bone that allowed to be in the mid 90
me is a because because I'm just the
byline so that the permit that but what
I am shocked by is just how low the bars
& Sat words like all Naturals not
they're like I'll this doesn't have
formaldehyde and you know
rap poisoned so yes it's on actual for
its intense it's about incident
on after being about what is it's now
about what it's not
they're like oh well more doesn't have
tar and yes couple on natural
ray do you think so if they changed it
to be a little more honest
would the company's the food companies
just figure out other ways
the manipulating people and they do I
mean that's not the only thing i've seen
you know as far as manipulation goes I
mean I've seen people you know
who are concerned animal rights give no
mind to
factory farming because it's at a
factory farming they say farm fresh
and technically it's a farm too far they
can say farm fresh in own bat an eye at
that I mean
it's no secret that 50 percent the
antibiotics and you know that are being
used
go into the food that you're consuming
and instead of
and serve you know marking like that of
a you know do to advance farming
techniques we've taken advanced
veterinary measures you know and and
people see that and I like how that
sounds great
break but they have no idea that Assange
were pumping approval that a bad right
so is that part about that especially in
America cuz a lot of the stuff that we
allowing our food in america is not
allowed in Europe
is a party that we just love stamps on
things we love like a logo that says
sup you know just some catch phrase or
authorized by
errors certified by and we don't do any
of the work
when you when you go shopping do you
look for those things even if you're not
even sure what they mean
you know just the stamp on the thing
that says it depends on when is I think
I feel like I was raised a pretty
healthy and so i'm looking i little
brown eggs I look for you know
pettit like there certain out things
that I do look at but
I feel like ninety percent on the
grocery store contains all these
chemicals at the Smarties quoting don't
remember bye and bye and baby how can
you avoid
II china shop around outside premier get
the fresh
management cheese and lettuce and what
what have you there's the
a but I did answer question though I do
believe that America is addicted to
brands and labels for sure
wrong you know it's it's all about
status it's all about
you now II honest I think the whole
vegan gluten free movement and really
pushed push that kinda obsession when it
comes to
one's own I initially restaurant I and
gluten free and if the clear that to the
restaurant so that everyone knows yeah
which actually a now there's been study
saying that good most people unless you
have silly actin there's basically no
such thing as being good gluten
intolerant when I'm sure they'll be
another 30
and rivers that next week anyway so just
be kinda a little more aware
what you plannin in your body because
this packaging clearly isn't telling the
truth